## "Righteous” - Juice WRLD, *Legends Never Die* (2020)

In his first posthumous single, Juice sings about his complex relationship with drugs, pointing out that his abusive indulgence could cost his life. The production on this track, with Juice’s reverberated voice complemented by an angelic, pristine backdrop, pays homage to his premature passing. The contrast between his morbid, grungy lyrics and the soft, pure soundscape, alludes to a seemingly innocent kid’s dark struggle with drugs. Juice was a 21-year-old who had been using drugs for almost half of his life. In the second verse, he sings, “We may die this evening; Coughing and wheezing, bleeding,” detailing a bleak outlook on his drug abuse; contextualized with his passing, it’s almost as if Juice saw the end coming, using music to write his own tragedy. But even though Juice was well aware of the negative effects of drugs, he still found them as a “medicine to fix all of the damage.” Drugs were his way of coping with the pain of existing. More specifically in “Righteous,” Juice opens up about his anxiety, referring to its overbearing nature and his inability to function while in an anxious state of mind. Using drugs wasn’t something he just did, it was a part of him, part of how he was able to live normally. To some, Juice’s use of drug usage and abuse in his music is a cautionary tale. But in the context of his first collaborative mixtape with Future and how Future was the one who first inspired Juice to try lean for the first time, we can begin to see in “Righteous” how a new generation of kids like Juice WRLD are being affected by the over-glorification of drug usage as a way of solving their problems.

—Jeff Huang

## “Crack Rock” - Frank Ocean, *channel ORANGE* (2012)

In the ninth track of his debut album, Frank Ocean sings about someone who is struggling with drug addiction, describing their dark, barren lifestyle of smoking crack in abandoned homes and fiending to get their next fix—often at the cost of those around them. Ocean no doubt paints a bleak outlook on drug usage and its controlling nature. The melancholy piano melody, soft drums, and his signature slow, slurred lyrics add to the overall dream-like soundscape. But the harsh lyrics “crack rock” breaks that continuity, like a drug addict coming down from their high. Towards the last part of the track, Ocean comments on the “War on Drugs,” saying that even though cops are part of the problem, they’re treated like martyrs, while Ocean’s “brothers” are left to die with no justice. Ocean argues that the drug problem is not a problem because they are inherently addictive and destructive but because of a corrupt system set up to oppress people of color. “Crack Rock” tells the story of how those who are affected the most by drugs, in the end, are left with nothing.

—Jeff Huang

## "Good News" - Mac Miller, *Circles* (2020)

As the lead single for the posthumously released Circles, “Good News” was the public’s first window into the more acoustic, singer/songwriter-influenced aesthetic the Pittsburgh rapper was exploring before his untimely death in 2018. Throughout the track, Miller references his struggle with the deep existential dread that comes along with seemingly having achieved success beyond anyone’s wildest dreams, yet still being unsatisfied in life. Exhausted by the pressure of feeling obligated to supply a steady stream of “good news,” not even drugs are able to provide the respite he so desperately needs: “Why does everybody need me to stay? Oh, I hate the feeling when you’re high but you’re underneath the ceiling.” This “ceiling” represents the self-defeating feedback loop of addiction: both personal guilt over his own dissatisfaction and the external pressure to maintain appearances only push him deeper within his own head, isolating himself from others and inflaming his desire to use drugs as an escape. The production of the song mirrors this sentiment of success tinged with sadness, with whimsical guitars and a laid-back drum beat contrasted against Miller’s dry, almost defeated vocal delivery and melodramatic chordal swells resembling an orchestra. Especially when viewed in the context of Mac Miller’s death from a drug overdose, “Good News” paints a clear picture of the complex interplay between societal pressures, mental health, and drug addiction.

-Lucas Hahn

## "Prison and Pharmaceuticals" - Kassa Overall, *Go Get Ice Cream and Listen to Jazz* (2019)

Throughout this eclectic cut, drawing musical influences from 21st-century classical music, modern jazz, and rap, Overall describes the oppressive, dehumanizing nature of the prison-industrial complex in America, which has a direct role in trapping Black Americans in a relentless cycle of drug abuse, poverty, and incarceration. He raps, “Uncle Sam pimping right down to the cuticles / What’s the best stocks? Prison and pharmaceuticals.” Not only does the draconian prison system unfairly punish addicts who would be better served with aid and support, but it actively profits off of their suffering. And as a college-educated man, Overall sees himself as an outsider within a system that would rather have him locked in a jail cell and “back on the Prozac.” Black Americans, he argues, face an impossible double standard - if society actively profits from your incarceration and attempts to secure an education are viewed as “provoking,” what recourse do you have? A dystopian sonic landscape drives this message home; atonal cello lines and dissonant, flowing piano chords combine with heavily-altered vocals to lend the track a disjointed, unsettling demeanor.

-Lucas Hahn

## "Better Off (Dying)" - Lil Peep, *Come Over When You're Sober, Pt. 1* (2017)

On this track in his debut studio album Come Over When You’re Sober, Pt. 1, Lil Peep straddles genres, combining the punk rock edge with the percussive trap sound. Starting off his music career on SoundCloud, Lil Peep is often compared to Nirvana’s Kurt Cobain. In “Better Off (Dying)”, the rock influences are clear immediately as the track starts. The high gain guitar provides the harmonic foundation for the song, and the lo-fi filter on Lil Peep’s voice provides the grunge texture reminiscent of 90’s / 00’s punk boy bands. Once the chorus starts out, Lil Peep’s trap and hip hop influences begin to show themselves with heavy bass drums and ripping 32nd-note hi hats. The lyrics of the song are relatively simple for a song of the rap genre, leaving raw emotion unfiltered by lyrical gymnastics and flashy punch lines. In this song, Lil Peep uncovers the ostentatious facade he puts on as a rapper, revealing the dark, emotional struggle to find the will to live. In an effort to assuage the burdens of his mental illnesses, Lil Peep turns to drugs and cocaine to forget about his strife. He self-medicates to numb himself to his feelings of futility. “Better Off (Dying)” provides intimate insight into the blurred lines between the extravagance of the rapper lifestyle and the dependence on that lifestyle to maintain a bearable existence.

—Brendan Lim

## XO Tour Llife3" - Lil Uzi Vert, *Luv is Rage 2* (2017)

Rounding out his follow up album Luv is Rage 2, “XO Tour Llif3” became Lil Uzi Vert’s first top ten single. Emblematic of the futuristic sound of his albums, the song starts off with an echoy synth that slowly builds towards the punchy bass drum of the trap style. The majority of this song is representative of the trap genre as a whole. Lil Uzi Vert spends much of the track exposing the fakeness of his competitors and their attempts at initiating him and his success. However, the track also holds darker themes of the paradoxical feelings of numbness and pain. The chorus repeats “Push me to the edge, All my friends are dead” for its hook. Towards the end of the first verse, Lil Uzi Vert gives the listener a brief peek into his use of Xanax and its effect on him saying “Xanny, help the pain, yeah; Please, Xanny, make it go away; I’m committed, not addicted, but it keep control of me; All the pain, now I can’t feel it; I swear that it’s slowing me.” As the finisher to the entire album, “XO Tour Llif3” gives the listener a window into the experience of fame and fortune that not only celebrates but also necessitates drug use as a pillar of stability in the rapper lifestyle.

—Brendan Lim
